{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}}
\fs24
\b TraceMAP RCA Workbench Demo Script\b0\par
\par
\b Purpose\b0\par
This document is a detailed presenter script for demonstrating TraceMAP RCA Workbench. It explains the GUI, how RCA is generated, what value the tool adds, and which telecom use cases it supports.\par
\par
\b Demo Objective\b0\par
Show that TraceMAP is not just a packet decoder. It is a telecom-native RCA platform that decodes PCAPs, correlates sessions, applies rule-based and autonomous RCA, persists learned knowledge, and can continuously improve from new traces.\par
\par
\b Recommended Demo Duration\b0\par
- Executive overview: 10 to 12 minutes\par
- Technical operator demo: 20 to 30 minutes\par
- Architecture and roadmap session: 35 to 45 minutes\par
\par
\b Demo Setup Checklist\b0\par
- Keep the application running on http://localhost:5050\par
- Prepare one success trace and one failure trace\par
- Prepare one mobility or inter-RAT trace if possible\par
- Prepare one folder of unseen PCAPs for learning demonstration\par
\par
\b GUI Walkthrough\b0\par
\b 1. Header And Upload\b0\par
Explain that Upload PCAP is the main analyst entry point and that the interface is divided into Analysis and Visualization modes.\par
\par
\b 2. Session Explorer\b0\par
Show the session list, failed versus success filtering, free-text search, and protocol filtering. Emphasize that the tool converts packet-level data into correlated session-level triage.\par
\par
\b 3. Trace Overview\b0\par
Explain that this section summarizes what kind of capture was uploaded and where an analyst should focus first.\par
\par
\b 4. Expert Findings\b0\par
Explain that this panel prioritizes likely investigative starting points and reduces time-to-triage.\par
\par
\b 5. Learning Control\b0\par
Explain the PCAP Learning Path, Save Path, Start Learning, and the KPI cards for patterns, learned PCAP count, pending files, learning state, and validation queue.\par
\par
\b 6. Capture Analytics\b0\par
Explain the KPI layer: sessions, packets, protocols, technologies, normal vs abnormal, average duration, top RCA, top protocol, IMS, 2G/3G, LTE/4G, 5G, and transport indicators.\par
\par
\b 7. Protocol And Endpoint Intelligence\b0\par
Explain protocol mix, technology mix, top endpoints, and RCA distribution.\par
\par
\b 8. Session RCA\b0\par
Select a session and show RCA title, summary, narrative, severity, confidence, evidence, and next checks.\par
\par
\b 9. Autonomous Reasoning\b0\par
Explain agent votes, causal chain, confidence model, and knowledge signals. Position this as a transparent augmentation to rules rather than a black box.\par
\par
\b 10. Details And Correlation\b0\par
Explain that these sections provide drill-down context and reveal how the tool stitched the session across technologies and protocols.\par
\par
\b 11. Validation Queue\b0\par
Explain that uncertain or conflicted cases are queued here so the system can learn safely with analyst oversight.\par
\par
\b 12. Visualization Tab\b0\par
Show Ladder View for chronological signaling, Graph View for topology, and Causal View for RCA explainability.\par
\par
\b How RCA Is Generated\b0\par
1. Decode PCAP with tshark\par
2. Parse protocol-specific fields\par
3. Normalize packet events\par
4. Correlate into sessions\par
5. Compact fragmented procedures\par
6. Apply rule-based RCA\par
7. Run autonomous reasoning and confidence logic\par
8. Blend hybrid RCA\par
9. Render analyst-facing output\par
10. Reinforce or queue learning outcomes\par
\par
\b Value Addition\b0\par
- Faster telecom RCA compared with generic packet viewers\par
- Cross-protocol telecom procedure understanding\par
- Explainable RCA rather than only raw decode\par
- Knowledge retention across traces and machines\par
- Controlled autonomous learning with gates and git-backed persistence\par
\par
\b Example Use Cases\b0\par
- IMS voice failure triage\par
- Diameter charging investigation\par
- Subscriber and registration rejection analysis\par
- 4G to 5G and 5G to 4G mobility troubleshooting\par
- Cross-team incident reviews across transport, core, and IMS\par
- Continuous learning from new corpora of traces\par
\par
\b Closing Statement\b0\par
TraceMAP RCA Workbench turns telecom packet analysis into telecom root-cause analysis. It combines decode, correlation, RCA, autonomous reasoning, and learning into one operator-facing platform that becomes more valuable as more traces are processed.\par
\par
\b Additional Files In This Repo\b0\par
- docs/demo/tracemap_demo_script.md for the full long-form presenter script\par
- docs/demo/gemini_diagram_prompts.md for Gemini diagram prompts\par
- docs/assets/tracemap_overview.svg for an overview architecture and flow image\par
}
